CHAPTER I. DOWN THE RABBIT-HOLE

Alice was beginning to get very tired of sitting by her sister on the bank, and of having nothing to do: once or twice she had peeped into the book her sister was reading, but it had no pictures or conversations in it, “and what is the use of a book,” thought Alice, “without pictures or conversations?”

So she was considering in her own mind (as well as she could, for the hot day made her feel very sleepy and stupid), whether the pleasure of making a daisy-chain would be worth the trouble of getting up and picking the daisies, when suddenly a White Rabbit with pink eyes ran close by her.

There was nothing so very remarkable in that; nor did Alice think it so very much out of the way to hear the Rabbit say to itself, “Oh dear! Oh dear! I shall be too late!” But when the Rabbit actually took a watch out of its waistcoat-pocket and looked at it, and then hurried on, Alice started to her feet, for it flashed across her mind that she had never before seen a rabbit with either a waistcoat-pocket or a watch to take out of it.

Burning with curiosity, she ran across the field after it, and was just in time to see it pop down a large rabbit-hole under the hedge. In another moment, down went Alice after it, never once considering how in the world she was to get out again.

The rabbit-hole went straight on like a tunnel for some way, and then dipped suddenly down, so suddenly that Alice had not a moment to think about stopping herself before she found herself falling down what seemed to be a very deep well.

Either the well was very deep, or she fell very slowly, for she had plenty of time as she went down to look about her and to wonder what was going to happen next. First, she tried to look down and make out what she was coming to, but it was too dark to see anything. Then she looked at the sides of the well, and noticed that they were filled with cupboards and bookshelves. Here and there she saw maps and pictures hung upon pegs.

She took down a jar from one of the shelves as she passed; it was labeled “ORANGE MARMALADE,” but to her great disappointment it was empty. She did not like to drop the jar for fear of killing somebody underneath, so she managed to put it into one of the cupboards as she fell past it.

“Well!” thought Alice to herself, “after such a fall as this, I shall think nothing of tumbling down stairs! How brave they’ll all think me at home!”

Down, down, down. Would the fall never come to an end? “I wonder how many miles I’ve fallen by this time?” she said aloud. “I must be getting somewhere near the center of the earth.”

Presently she began again. “I wonder if I shall fall right through the earth! How funny it’ll seem to come out among the people that walk with their heads downward! The Antipathies, I think—” (she was rather glad there was no one listening, this time, as it didn’t sound at all the right word).

Down, down, down. There was nothing else to do, so Alice soon began talking again. “Dinah’ll miss me very much tonight, I should think!” (Dinah was the cat.)

She felt that she was dozing off, and had just begun to dream, when suddenly—thump! thump!—down she came upon a heap of sticks and dry leaves, and the fall was over.

Alice was not a bit hurt, and she jumped up on her feet in a moment. She looked up, but it was all dark overhead. Before her was another long passage, and the White Rabbit was still in sight, hurrying down it.

There was not a moment to be lost. Away went Alice like the wind, and was just in time to hear it say, as it turned a corner, “Oh my ears and whiskers, how late it’s getting!”

She was close behind it when she turned the corner, but the Rabbit was no longer to be seen. She found herself in a long, low hall, lit up by a row of lamps hanging from the roof.

There were doors all round the hall, but they were all locked. After trying every door, she walked sadly down the middle, wondering how she was ever to get out again.

Suddenly she came upon a little three-legged table, all made of solid glass. There was nothing on it except a tiny golden key.

Alice’s first idea was that this might belong to one of the doors of the hall; but either the locks were too large, or the key was too small—it would not open any of them.

However, on the second time round, she came upon a low curtain she had not noticed before, and behind it was a little door about fifteen inches high. She tried the little golden key in the lock, and to her great delight it fitted!

Alice opened the door and found that it led into a small passage, not much larger than a rat-hole. She knelt down and looked along the passage into the loveliest garden you ever saw.

“How I wish I could get through!” thought Alice. “Even my head would be of very little use without my shoulders.”

There seemed to be no use in waiting, so she went back to the table. This time she found a little bottle on it, with a label that said “DRINK ME.”

“I’ll look first,” she said, “and see whether it’s marked ‘poison’ or not.”

However, this bottle was not marked “poison,” so Alice ventured to taste it. It had a very nice flavor—like cherry tart, custard, pineapple, roast turkey, toffee, and hot buttered toast.

She soon finished it off.

“What a curious feeling!” said Alice. “I must be shutting up like a telescope.”

And so it was indeed. She was now only ten inches high.

At last she was the right size to go through the little door into the garden. But when she got there, she found she had forgotten the little golden key.

When she went back to the table for it, she found she could not possibly reach it.

The poor little thing sat down and cried.

“Come, there’s no use in crying like that!” said Alice to herself. “I advise you to leave off this minute!”

Soon her eye fell on a little glass box under the table. Inside it was a very small cake, with the words “EAT ME” beautifully marked on it.

“Well, I’ll eat it,” said Alice, “and if it makes me grow larger, I can reach the key; and if it makes me smaller, I can creep under the door. Either way, I’ll get into the garden.”

So she set to work and very soon finished off the cake.

CHAPTER II. THE POOL OF TEARS

“Curiouser and curiouser!” cried Alice (she was so much surprised, that for the moment she quite forgot how to speak good English);
“now I’m opening out like the largest telescope that ever was! Good-bye, feet!”
(for when she looked down at her feet, they seemed to be almost out of sight, they were getting so far off)
“Oh, my poor little feet, I wonder who will put on your shoes and stockings for you now, dears? I’m sure I shan’t be able! I shall be a great deal too far off to trouble myself about you: you must manage the best way you can;—but I must be kind to them,” thought Alice, “or perhaps they won’t walk the way I want to go! Let me see: I’ll give them a new pair of boots every Christmas.”

And she went on planning to herself how she would manage it.
“They must go by the carrier,” she thought; “and how funny it’ll seem, sending presents to one’s own feet! And how odd the directions will look! Alice’s Right Foot, Esq., Hearthrug, near the Fender. (with Alice’s love.) Oh dear, what nonsense I’m talking!”

Just at this moment her head struck against the roof of the hall: in fact she was now rather more than nine feet high, and she at once took up the little golden key and hurried off to the garden door.

Poor Alice! It was as much as she could do, lying down on one side, to look through into the garden with one eye; but to get through was more hopeless than ever: she sat down and began to cry again.

“You ought to be ashamed of yourself,” said Alice, “a great girl like you,” (she might well say this,) “to go on crying in this way! Stop this moment, I tell you!”

But she went on all the same, shedding gallons of tears, until there was a large pool all round her, about four inches deep and reaching half down the hall.

After a time she heard a little pattering of feet in the distance, and she hastily dried her eyes to see what was coming.
It was the White Rabbit returning, splendidly dressed, with a pair of white kid gloves in one hand and a large fan in the other: he came trotting along in a great hurry, muttering to himself as he came,
“Oh! the Duchess, the Duchess! Oh! won’t she be savage if I’ve kept her waiting!”

Alice felt so desperate that she was ready to ask help of any one; so, when the Rabbit came near her, she began, in a low, timid voice,
“If you please, sir——”

The Rabbit started violently, dropped the white kid gloves and the fan, and skurried away into the darkness as hard as he could go.

Alice took up the fan and gloves, and, as the hall was very hot, she kept fanning herself all the time she went on talking:
“Dear, dear! How queer everything is to-day! And yesterday things went on just as usual. I wonder if I’ve been changed in the night? Let me think: was I the same when I got up this morning? I almost think I can remember feeling a little different. But if I’m not the same, the next question is, Who in the world am I? Ah, that’s the great puzzle!”

And she began thinking over all the children she knew, that were of the same age as herself, to see if she could have been changed for any of them.
“I’m sure I’m not Ada,” she said, “for her hair goes in such long ringlets, and mine doesn’t go in ringlets at all; and I’m sure I can’t be Mabel, for I know all sorts of things, and she, oh! she knows such a very little! Besides, she’s she, and I’m I, and—oh dear, how puzzling it all is! I’ll try if I know all the things I used to know. Let me see: four times five is twelve, and four times six is thirteen, and four times seven is—oh dear! I shall never get to twenty at that rate! However, the Multiplication Table don’t signify: let’s try Geography. London is the capital of Paris, and Paris is the capital of Rome, and Rome—no, that’s all wrong, I’m certain! I must have been changed for Mabel! I’ll try and say ‘How doth the little—’”

And she crossed her hands on her lap, as if she were saying lessons, and began to repeat it, but her voice sounded hoarse and strange, and the words did not come the same as they used to do:

“How doth the little crocodile
Improve his shining tail,
And pour the waters of the Nile
On every golden scale!
How cheerfully he seems to grin,
How neatly spreads his claws,
And welcome little fishes in
With gently smiling jaws!”

“I’m sure those are not the right words,” said poor Alice, and her eyes filled with tears again as she went on,
“I must be Mabel after all, and I shall have to go and live in that poky little house, and have next to no toys to play with, and oh! ever so many lessons to learn! No, I’ve made up my mind about it: if I’m Mabel, I’ll stay down here! It’ll be no use their putting their heads down and saying, ‘Come up again, dear!’ I shall only look up and say, ‘Who am I then? Tell me that first, and then, if I like being that person, I’ll come up: if not, I’ll stay down here till I’m somebody else’—but, oh dear!”

Cried Alice with a sudden burst of tears,
“I do wish they would put their heads down! I am so very tired of being all alone here!”

As she said this, she looked down at her hands, and was surprised to see that she had put on one of the Rabbit’s little white kid gloves while she was talking.
“How can I have done that?” she thought. “I must be growing small again.”

She got up and went to the table to measure herself by it, and found that, as nearly as she could guess, she was now about two feet high, and was going on shrinking rapidly: she soon found out that the cause of this was the fan she was holding, and she dropped it hastily, just in time to save herself from shrinking away altogether.

“That was a narrow escape!” said Alice, a good deal frightened at the sudden change, but very glad to find herself still in existence;
“and now for the garden!” and she ran with all speed back to the little door: but, alas! the little door was shut again, and the little golden key was lying on the glass table as before,
“and things are worse than ever,” thought the poor child,
“for I never was so small as this before, never! And I declare it’s too bad, that it is!”

As she said these words her foot slipped, and in another moment, splash! she was up to her chin in salt water.
Her first idea was that she had somehow fallen into the sea,
“and in that case I can go back by railway,” she said to herself.

However, she soon made out that she was in the pool of tears which she had wept when she was nine feet high.
“I wish I hadn’t cried so much!” said Alice, as she swam about, trying to find her way out.
“I shall be punished for it now, I suppose, by being drowned in my own tears! That will be a queer thing, to be sure! However, everything is queer to-day.”

Just then she heard something splashing about in the pool a little way off, and she swam nearer to make out what it was: at first she thought it must be a walrus or hippopotamus, but then she remembered how small she was now, and she soon made out that it was only a mouse, that had slipped in like herself.

“Would it be of any use, now,” thought Alice, “to speak to this mouse? Everything is so out-of-the-way down here, that I should think very likely it can talk: at any rate there’s no harm in trying.”

So she began:
“O Mouse, do you know the way out of this pool? I am very tired of swimming about here, O Mouse!”

The Mouse looked at her rather inquisitively, and seemed to her to wink with one of its little eyes, but it said nothing.
“Perhaps it doesn’t understand English,” thought Alice;
“I daresay it’s a French mouse, come over with William the Conqueror.”

So she began again:
“Ou est ma chatte?”

The Mouse gave a sudden leap out of the water, and seemed to quiver all over with fright.
“Oh, I beg your pardon!” cried Alice hastily, afraid that she had hurt the poor animal’s feelings.
“I quite forgot you didn’t like cats.”

“Not like cats!” cried the Mouse, in a shrill, passionate voice.
“Would you like cats if you were me?”

“Well, perhaps not,” said Alice in a soothing tone: “don’t be angry about it. And yet I wish I could show you our cat Dinah: I think you’d take a fancy to cats if you could only see her. She is such a dear quiet thing,” Alice went on, half to herself, as she swam lazily about in the pool, “and she sits purring so nicely by the fire, licking her paws and washing her face—and she is such a nice soft thing to nurse—and she’s such a capital one for catching mice——oh, I beg your pardon!” cried Alice again, for this time the Mouse was bristling all over, and she felt certain it must be really offended.

“We won’t talk about her any more if you’d rather not.”

“We, indeed!” cried the Mouse, who was trembling down to the end of his tail.
“As if I would talk on such a subject! Our family always hated cats: nasty, low, vulgar things! Don’t let me hear the name again!”

“I won’t indeed!” said Alice, in a great hurry to change the subject of conversation.
“Are you—are you fond—of—of dogs?”

The mouse did not answer, so Alice went on eagerly:
“There is such a nice little dog near our house I should like to show you! A little bright-eyed terrier, you know, with oh! such long curly brown hair! And it’ll fetch things when you throw them, and it’ll sit up and beg for its dinner, and all sorts of things—I can’t remember half of them—and it belongs to a farmer, you know, and he says it is so useful, it’s worth a hundred pounds! He says it kills all the rats and—oh dear!” cried Alice in a sorrowful tone.
“I’m afraid I’ve offended it again!”

For the Mouse was swimming away from her as hard as it could go, and making quite a commotion in the pool as it went.

So she called softly after it:
“Mouse dear! Do come back again, and we won’t talk about cats or dogs either, if you don’t like them!”

When the Mouse heard this, it turned round and swam slowly back to her: its face was quite pale (with passion, Alice thought), and it said in a low, trembling voice,
“Let us get to the shore, and then I’ll tell you my history, and you’ll understand why it is I hate cats and dogs.”

It was high time to go, for the pool was getting quite crowded with the birds and animals that had fallen into it: there was a Duck and a Dodo, a Lory and an Eaglet, and several other curious creatures.
Alice led the way, and the whole party swam to the shore.


CHAPTER III. A CAUCUS-RACE AND A LONG TALE

They were indeed a queer-looking party that assembled on the bank—the birds with draggled feathers, the animals with their fur clinging close to them, and all dripping wet, cross, and uncomfortable.

The first question, of course, was how to get dry again: they had a consultation about this, and after a few minutes it seemed quite natural to Alice to find herself talking familiarly with them, as if she had known them all her life.

Indeed, she had quite a long argument with the Lory, who at last turned sulky, and would only say,
“I am older than you, and must know better;”
and this Alice would not allow, without knowing how old it was, and, as the Lory positively refused to tell its age, there was no more to be said.

At last the Mouse, who seemed to be a person of some authority among them, called out,
“Sit down, all of you, and listen to me! I’ll soon make you dry enough!”

They all sat down at once, in a large ring, with the Mouse in the middle. Alice kept her eyes anxiously fixed on it, for she felt sure she would catch a bad cold if she did not get dry very soon.

“Ahem!” said the Mouse with an important air,
“are you all ready? This is the driest thing I know. Silence all round, if you please!
‘William the Conqueror, whose cause was favoured by the pope, was soon submitted to by the English, who wanted leaders, and had been of late much accustomed to usurpation and conquest. Edwin and Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria—’”

“Ugh!” said the Lory, with a shiver.
“I beg your pardon?” said the Mouse, frowning, but very politely: “Did you speak?”
“Not I!” said the Lory, hastily.
“I thought you did,” said the Mouse.—“I proceed.
‘Edwin and Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria, declared for him; and even Stigand, the patriotic archbishop of Canterbury, found it advisable—’”

“Found what?” said the Duck.
“Found it,” the Mouse replied rather crossly: “of course you know what ‘it’ means.”
“I know what ‘it’ means well enough, when I find a thing,” said the Duck: “it’s generally a frog or a worm. The question is, what did the archbishop find?”

The Mouse did not notice this question, but hurriedly went on,
“‘—found it advisable to go with Edgar Atheling to meet William and offer him the crown. William’s conduct at first was moderate. But the insolence of his Normans—’

“How are you getting on now, my dear?” it continued, turning to Alice as it spoke.
“As wet as ever,” said Alice in a melancholy tone: “it doesn’t seem to dry me at all.”

“In that case,” said the Dodo solemnly, rising to its feet,
“I move that the meeting adjourn, for the immediate adoption of more energetic remedies—”
“Speak English!” said the Eaglet.
“I don’t know the meaning of half those long words, and, what’s more, I don’t believe you do either!”

And the Eaglet bent down its head to hide a smile; some of the other birds tittered audibly.

“What I was going to say,” said the Dodo in an offended tone,
“was, that the best thing to get us dry would be a Caucus-race.”

“What is a Caucus-race?” said Alice; not that she much wanted to know, but the Dodo had paused as if it thought that somebody ought to speak, and no one else seemed inclined to say anything.

“Why,” said the Dodo, “the best way to explain it is to do it.”

(And as you might like to try the thing yourself, some winter day, I will tell you how the Dodo managed it.)

First it marked out a race-course, in a sort of circle, (“the exact shape doesn’t matter,” it said,) and then all the party were placed along the course, here and there. There was no “One, two, three, and away,” but they began running when they liked, and left off when they liked, so that it was not easy to know when the race was over.

However, when they had been running half an hour or so, and were quite dry again, the Dodo suddenly called out,
“The race is over!”

They all crowded round it, panting, and asking,
“But who has won?”

This question the Dodo could not answer without a great deal of thought, and it sat for a long time with one finger pressed upon its forehead, (the position in which you usually see Shakespeare, in the pictures of him,) while the rest waited in silence.

At last the Dodo said,
“Everybody has won, and all must have prizes.”

“But who is to give the prizes?” quite a chorus of voices asked.
“Why, she, of course,” said the Dodo, pointing to Alice with one finger; and the whole party at once crowded round her, calling out in a confused way,
“Prizes! Prizes!”

Alice had no idea what to do, and in despair she put her hand in her pocket, and pulled out a box of comfits (luckily the salt water had not got into it), and handed them round as prizes. There was exactly one apiece, all round.

“But she must have a prize herself, you know,” said the Mouse.
“Of course,” the Dodo replied very gravely.
“What else have you got in your pocket?” he went on, turning to Alice.
“Only a thimble,” said Alice sadly.
“Hand it over here,” said the Dodo.

Then they all crowded round her once more, while the Dodo solemnly presented the thimble, saying,
“We beg your acceptance of this elegant thimble;”
and, when it had finished this short speech, they all cheered.

Alice thought the whole thing very absurd, but they all looked so grave that she did not dare to laugh, and as she could not think of anything to say, she simply bowed, and took the thimble, looking as solemn as she could.

The next thing was to eat the comfits: this caused some noise and confusion, as the large birds complained that they could not taste theirs, and the small ones choked and had to be patted on the back. However it was over at last, and they sat down again in a ring, and begged the Mouse to tell them something more.

“You promised to tell me your history, you know,” said Alice, “and why it is you hate—” she added in a whisper, half afraid that it would be offended again.
“Mine is a long and a sad tale!” said the Mouse, turning to Alice, and sighing.
“It is a long tail, certainly,” said Alice, looking down with wonder at the Mouse’s tail; “but why do you call it sad?”

And she kept on puzzling about it while the Mouse was speaking, so that her idea of the tale was something like this:

“Fury said to a mouse,
That he met in the house,
‘Let us both go to law: I will prosecute you.—
Come, I’ll take no denial;
We must have a trial:
For really this morning I’ve nothing to do.’
Said the mouse to the cur,
‘Such a trial, dear sir,
With no jury or judge, would be wasting our breath.’
‘I’ll be judge, I’ll be jury,’
Said cunning old Fury;
‘I’ll try the whole cause, and condemn you to death.’”

“You are not attending!” said the Mouse to Alice, severely.
“What are you thinking of?”

“I beg your pardon,” said Alice very humbly: “you had got to the fifth bend, I think?”
“I had not!” cried the Mouse, sharply and very angrily.

“A knot!” said Alice, always ready to make herself useful, and looking anxiously about her.
“Oh, do let me help to undo it!”
“I shall do nothing of the sort,” said the Mouse, getting up and walking away.
“You insult me by talking such nonsense!”
“I didn’t mean it!” pleaded poor Alice.
“But you’re so easily offended, you know!”

The Mouse only growled in reply.
“Please come back, and finish your story!” Alice called after it; and the others all joined in chorus, “Yes, please do!” but the Mouse only shook its head impatiently, and walked a little quicker.

“What a pity it wouldn’t stay!” sighed the Lory, as soon as it was quite out of sight; and an old crab took the opportunity of saying to her daughter,
“Ah, my dear! Let this be a lesson to you never to lose your temper!”
“Hold your tongue, Ma!” said the young crab, a little snappishly.
“You’re enough to try the patience of an oyster!”

“I wish I had our Dinah here, I know I do!” said Alice aloud, addressing nobody in particular.
“She’d soon fetch it back!”
“And who is Dinah, if I might venture to ask the question?” said the Lory.

Alice replied eagerly, for she was always ready to talk about her pet.
“Dinah’s our cat. And she’s such a capital one for catching mice you can’t think! And oh, I wish you could see her after the birds! Why, she ’ll eat a little bird as soon as look at it!”

This speech caused a remarkable sensation among the party. Some of the birds hurried off at once: one old magpie began wrapping itself up very carefully, remarking,
“I really must be getting home; the night-air doesn’t suit my throat!”
and a canary called out in a trembling voice to its children,
“Come away, my dears! It’s high time you were all in bed!”

On various pretexts they all moved off, and Alice was soon left alone.

“I wish I hadn’t mentioned Dinah!” she said to herself in a melancholy tone.
“Nobody seems to like her, down here, and I’m sure she’s the best cat in the world! Oh, my dear Dinah! I wonder if I shall ever see you any more!”

And here poor Alice began to cry again, for she felt very lonely and low-spirited.

In a little while, however, she again heard a little pattering of footsteps in the distance, and she looked up eagerly, half hoping that the Mouse had changed his mind, and was coming back to finish his story.

CHAPTER IV. THE RABBIT SENDS IN A LITTLE BILL

It was the White Rabbit, trotting slowly back again, and looking anxiously about as it went, as if it had lost something; and she heard it muttering to itself, “The Duchess! The Duchess! Oh my dear paws! Oh my fur and whiskers! She’ll get me executed, as sure as ferrets are ferrets! Where can I have dropped them, I wonder!”

Alice guessed in a moment that it was looking for the fan and the pair of white kid gloves, and she very good-naturedly began hunting about for them, but they were nowhere to be seen—everything seemed to have changed since her swim in the pool, and the great hall, with the glass table and the little door, had vanished completely.

Very soon the Rabbit noticed Alice as she went hunting about, and called out to her in an angry tone, “Why, Mary Ann, what are you doing out here? Run home this moment, and fetch me a pair of gloves and a fan! Quick, now!”

Alice was so much frightened that she ran off at once in the direction it pointed to, without trying to explain the mistake that it had made. “He took me for his housemaid,” she said to herself as she ran. “How surprised he’ll be when he finds out who I am! But I’d better take him his fan and gloves—that is, if I can find them.”

As she said this, she came upon a neat little house, on the door of which was a bright brass plate with the name “W. RABBIT” engraved upon it. She went in without knocking, and hurried upstairs, in great fear lest she should meet the real Mary Ann, and be turned out of the house before she had found the fan and gloves.

“How queer it seems,” Alice said to herself, “to be going on messages for a rabbit! I suppose Dinah’ll be sending me on messages next!” And she began fancying the sort of thing that would happen: “‘Miss Alice! Come here directly, and get ready for your walk!’ ‘Coming in a minute, nurse! But I’ve got to watch this mousehole till Dinah comes back, and see that the mouse doesn’t get out.’ Only I don’t think,” Alice went on, “that they’d let Dinah stop in the house if it began ordering people about like that!”

By this time she had found her way into a tidy little room with a table in the window, and on it (as she had hoped) a fan and two or three pairs of tiny white kid gloves. She took up the fan and a pair of the gloves, and was just going to leave the room, when her eye fell upon a little bottle that stood near the looking-glass.

There was no label this time, but nevertheless she uncorked it and put it to her lips. “I know something interesting is sure to happen,” she said to herself, “whenever I eat or drink anything; so I’ll just see what this bottle does. I do hope it’ll make me grow large again, for really I’m quite tired of being such a tiny little thing!”

It did so indeed, and much sooner than she had expected: before she had drunk half the bottle, she found her head pressing against the ceiling, and had to stoop to save her neck from being broken. She hastily put down the bottle, saying to herself, “That’s quite enough—I hope I shan’t grow any more—As it is, I can’t get out at the door—I do wish I hadn’t drunk quite so much!”

Alas! It was too late to wish that! She went on growing and growing, and very soon had to kneel down on the floor; in another minute there was not even room for this, and she tried the effect of lying down with one elbow against the door, and the other arm curled round her head. Still she went on growing, and, as a last resource, she put one arm out of the window, and one foot up the chimney, and said to herself, “Now I can do no more, whatever happens. What will become of me?”

Luckily for Alice, the little magic bottle had now had its full effect, and she grew no larger. Still it was very uncomfortable, and, as there seemed to be no sort of chance of her ever getting out of the room again, no wonder she felt unhappy. “It was much pleasanter at home,” thought poor Alice, “when one wasn’t always growing larger and smaller, and being ordered about by mice and rabbits. I almost wish I hadn’t gone down that rabbit-hole—and yet—and yet—it’s rather curious, you know, this sort of life! I do wonder what can have happened to me! When I used to read fairy-tales, I fancied that kind of thing never happened, and now here I am in the middle of one! There ought to be a book written about me, that there ought! And when I grow up, I’ll write one—but I’m grown up now,” she added in a sorrowful tone, “at least there’s no room to grow up any more here.”

“But then,” thought Alice, “shall I never get any older than I am now? That’ll be a comfort, one way—never to be an old woman—but then—always to have lessons to learn! Oh, I shouldn’t like that!”

“Oh, you foolish Alice!” she answered herself. “How can you learn lessons in here? Why, there’s hardly room for you, and no room at all for any lesson-books!”

And so she went on, taking first one side and then the other, and making quite a conversation of it altogether, but after a few minutes she heard a voice outside, and stopped to listen. “Mary Ann! Mary Ann!” said the voice, “fetch me my gloves this moment!” Then came a little pattering of feet on the stairs. Alice knew it was the Rabbit coming to look for her, and she trembled till she shook the house, quite forgetting that she was now about a thousand times as large as the Rabbit, and had no reason to be afraid of it.

Presently the Rabbit came up to the door and tried to open it, but as the door opened inwards, and Alice’s elbow was pressed hard against it, that attempt proved a failure. Alice heard it say to itself, “Then I’ll go round and get in at the window.”

“That you won’t!” thought Alice, and, after waiting till she fancied she heard the Rabbit just under the window, she suddenly spread out her hand, and made a snatch in the air. She did not get hold of anything, but she heard a little shriek and a fall, and a crash of broken glass, from which she concluded that it was just possible it had fallen into a cucumber-frame, or something of the sort.

Next came an angry voice—the Rabbit’s—“Pat! Pat! Where are you?” And then a voice she had never heard before, “Sure then I’m here! Digging for apples, yer honour!”

“Digging for apples, indeed!” said the Rabbit angrily. “Here! Come and help me out of this!” (Sounds of more broken glass.)

“Now tell me, Pat, what’s that in the window?”

“Sure, it’s an arm, yer honour!” (He pronounced it “arrum.”)

“An arm, you goose! Who ever saw one that size? Why, it fills the whole window!”

“Sure, it does, yer honour: but it’s an arm for all that.”

“Well, it’s got no business there, at any rate: go and take it away!”

There was a long silence after this, and Alice could only hear whispers now and then, such as, “Sure, I don’t like it, yer honour, at all, at all!”

“Do as I tell you, you coward!” and at last she spread out her hand again and made another snatch in the air. This time there were two little shrieks, and more sounds of broken glass.

“What a number of cucumber frames there must be!” thought Alice. “I wonder what they’ll do next! As for pulling me out of the window, I only wish they could! I’m sure I don’t want to stay in here any longer!”

She waited for some time without hearing anything more; at last came a rumbling of little cart-wheels, and the sound of a good many voices all talking together: she made out the words, “Where’s the other ladder?—Why, I hadn’t to bring but one: Bill’s got the other—Bill! fetch it here, lad!—Here, put ’em up at this corner—No, tie ’em together first—they don’t reach half high enough yet—Oh! they’ll do well enough; don’t be particular—Here, Bill! catch hold of this rope—Will the roof bear?—Mind that loose slate—Oh, it’s coming down! Heads below!”

“Now, who did that?—It was Bill, I fancy—Who’s to go down the chimney?—Nay, I shan’t! You do it!—That I won’t then!—Bill’s got to go down—Here, Bill! the master says you’ve got to go down the chimney!”

“Oh, so Bill’s got to come down the chimney, has he?” said Alice to herself. “Why, they seem to put everything upon Bill! I wouldn’t be in Bill’s place for a good deal: this fireplace is narrow, to be sure, but I think I can kick a little!”

She drew her foot as far down the chimney as she could, and waited till she heard a little animal (she couldn’t guess of what sort it was) scratching and scrambling about in the chimney close above her; then, saying to herself, “This is Bill,” she gave one sharp kick, and waited to see what would happen next.

The first thing she heard was a general chorus of “There goes Bill!” then the Rabbit’s voice alone—“Catch him, you by the hedge!” then silence, and then another confusion of voices—“Hold up his head—Brandy now—Don’t choke him—How was it, old fellow? What happened to you? Tell us all about it!”

Last came a little feeble squeaking voice, (“That’s Bill,” thought Alice,) “Well, I hardly know—No more, thank’ye, I’m better now—but I’m a deal too flustered to tell you—all I know is, something comes at me like a Jack-in-the-box, and up I goes like a sky-rocket!”

“So you did, old fellow!” said the others. “We must burn the house down!” said the Rabbit’s voice, and Alice called out as loud as she could, “If you do, I’ll set Dinah at you!”

There was a dead silence instantly, and Alice thought to herself, “I wonder what they will do next! If they had any sense, they’d take the roof off.”

After a minute or two they began moving about again, and Alice heard the Rabbit say, “A barrowful will do, to begin with.”

“A barrowful of what?” thought Alice; but she had not long to doubt, for the next moment a shower of little pebbles came rattling in at the window, and some of them hit her in the face.

“I’ll put a stop to this,” she said to herself, and shouted out, “You’d better not do that again!” which produced another dead silence.

Alice noticed with some surprise that the pebbles were all turning into little cakes as they lay on the floor, and a bright idea came into her head. “If I eat one of these cakes,” she thought, “it’s sure to make some change in my size; and as it can’t possibly make me larger, it must make me smaller, I suppose.”

So she swallowed one of the cakes, and was delighted to find that she began shrinking directly. As soon as she was small enough to get through the door, she ran out of the house, and found quite a crowd of little animals and birds waiting outside.

The poor little Lizard, Bill, was in the middle, being held up by two guinea-pigs, who were giving it something out of a bottle. They all made a rush at Alice the moment she appeared, but she ran off as hard as she could, and soon found herself safe in a thick wood.

“The first thing I’ve got to do,” said Alice to herself, as she wandered about in the wood, “is to grow to my right size again; and the second thing is to find my way into that lovely garden. I think that will be the best plan.”

It sounded an excellent plan, no doubt, and very neatly and simply arranged; the only difficulty was that she had not the smallest idea how to set about it; and while she was peering about anxiously among the trees, a little sharp bark just over her head made her look up in a great hurry.

An enormous puppy was looking down at her with large round eyes, and feebly stretching out one paw, trying to touch her.

“Poor little thing!” said Alice in a coaxing tone, and she tried hard to whistle to it, but she was terribly frightened all the time at the thought that it might be hungry, in which case it would be very likely to eat her up in spite of all her coaxing.

Hardly knowing what she did, she picked up a little bit of stick, and held it out to the puppy; whereupon the puppy jumped into the air off all its feet at once, with a yelp of delight, and rushed at the stick, and made believe to worry it. Then Alice dodged behind a great thistle, to keep herself from being run over, and the moment she appeared on the other side, the puppy made another rush at the stick, and tumbled head over heels in its hurry to get hold of it.

Then Alice, thinking it was very like having a game of play with a carthorse, and expecting every moment to be trampled under its feet, ran round the thistle again; then the puppy began a series of short charges at the stick, running a very little way forwards each time and a long way back, and barking hoarsely all the while, till at last it sat down a good way off, panting, with its tongue hanging out of its mouth, and its great eyes half shut.

This seemed to Alice a good opportunity for making her escape, so she set off at once, and ran till she was quite tired and out of breath, and till the puppy’s bark sounded quite faint in the distance.

“And yet what a dear little puppy it was!” said Alice, as she leant against a buttercup to rest herself, and fanned herself with one of the leaves, “I should have liked teaching it tricks very much, if—if I’d only been the right size to do it! Oh dear! I’d nearly forgotten that I’ve got to grow up again! Let me see—how is it to be managed? I suppose I ought to eat or drink something or other; but the great question is, what?”

The great question certainly was, what? Alice looked all round her at the flowers and the blades of grass, but she could not see anything that looked like the right thing to eat or drink under the circumstances.

There was a large mushroom growing near her, about the same height as herself, and when she had looked under it, and on both sides of it, and behind it, it occurred to her that she might as well look and see what was on the top of it. She stretched herself up on tiptoe, and peeped over the edge of the mushroom, and her eyes immediately met those of a large blue caterpillar, that was sitting on the top with its arms folded, quietly smoking a long hookah, and taking not the smallest notice of her or of anything else.
CHAPTER V. ADVICE FROM A CATERPILLAR

The Caterpillar and Alice looked at each other for some time in silence; at last the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its mouth and addressed her in a languid, sleepy voice.

“Who are you?” said the Caterpillar.

This was not an encouraging opening for a conversation.

Alice replied, rather shyly, “I—I hardly know, sir, just at present—at least I know who I was when I got up this morning, but I think I must have been changed several times since then.”

“What do you mean by that?” said the Caterpillar sternly. “Explain yourself!”

“I can’t explain myself, I’m afraid, sir,” said Alice, “because I’m not myself, you see.”

“I don’t see,” said the Caterpillar.

“I’m afraid I can’t put it more clearly,” Alice replied very politely, “for I can’t understand it myself to begin with; and being so many different sizes in a day is very confusing.”

“It isn’t,” said the Caterpillar.

“Well, perhaps you haven’t found it so yet,” said Alice; “but when you have to turn into a chrysalis—you will some day, you know—and then after that into a butterfly, I should think you’ll feel it a little queer, won’t you?”

“Not a bit,” said the Caterpillar.

“Well, perhaps your feelings may be different,” said Alice; “all I know is, it would feel very queer to me.”

“You!” said the Caterpillar contemptuously. “Who are you?”

Which brought them back again to the beginning of the conversation. Alice felt a little irritated at the Caterpillar’s making such very short remarks, and she drew herself up and said, very gravely, “I think you ought to tell me who you are, first.”

“Why?” said the Caterpillar.

Here was another puzzling question; and, as Alice could not think of any good reason, and as the Caterpillar seemed to be in a very unpleasant state of mind, she turned away.

“Come back!” the Caterpillar called after her. “I’ve something important to say!”

This sounded promising, certainly: Alice turned and came back again.

“Keep your temper,” said the Caterpillar.

“Is that all?” said Alice, swallowing down her anger as well as she could.

“No,” said the Caterpillar.

Alice thought she might as well wait, as she had nothing else to do, and perhaps after all it might tell her something worth hearing.

For some minutes it puffed away without speaking, but at last it unfolded its arms, took the hookah out of its mouth again, and said, “So you think you’re changed, do you?”

“I’m afraid I am, sir,” said Alice; “I can’t remember things as I used—and I don’t keep the same size for ten minutes together!”

“Can’t remember what things?” said the Caterpillar.

“Well, I’ve tried to say ‘How doth the little busy bee,’ but it all came different!” Alice replied in a very melancholy voice.

“Repeat ‘You are old, Father William,’” said the Caterpillar.

Alice folded her hands, and began:—

“You are old, father William,” the young man said,
“And your hair has become very white;
And yet you incessantly stand on your head—
Do you think, at your age, it is right?”

“In my youth,” father William replied to his son,
“I feared it might injure the brain;
But now that I’m perfectly sure I have none,
Why, I do it again and again.”

“You are old,” said the youth,
“As I mentioned before,
And have grown most uncommonly fat;
Yet you turned a back-somersault in at the door—
Pray, what is the reason of that?”

“In my youth,” said the sage, as he shook his grey locks,
“I kept all my limbs very supple
By the use of this ointment—one shilling the box—
Allow me to sell you a couple.”

“You are old,” said the youth,
“And your jaws are too weak
For anything tougher than suet;
Yet you finished the goose, with the bones and the beak—
Pray, how did you manage to do it?”

“In my youth,” said his father,
“I took to the law,
And argued each case with my wife;
And the muscular strength, which it gave to my jaw,
Has lasted the rest of my life.”

“You are old,” said the youth;
“One would hardly suppose
That your eye was as steady as ever;
Yet you balanced an eel on the end of your nose—
What made you so awfully clever?”

“I have answered three questions, and that is enough,”
Said his father;
“Don’t give yourself airs! Do you think I can listen all day to such stuff?
Be off, or I’ll kick you down stairs!”

“That is not said right,” said the Caterpillar.

“Not quite right, I’m afraid,” said Alice timidly; “some of the words have got altered.”

“It is wrong from beginning to end,” said the Caterpillar decidedly, and there was silence for some minutes.

The Caterpillar was the first to speak. “What size do you want to be?” it asked.

“Oh, I’m not particular as to size,” Alice hastily replied; “only one doesn’t like changing so often, you know.”

“I don’t know,” said the Caterpillar.

Alice said nothing: she had never been so much contradicted in her life before, and she felt that she was losing her temper.

“Are you content now?” said the Caterpillar.

“Well, I should like to be a little larger, sir, if you wouldn’t mind,” said Alice: “three inches is such a wretched height to be.”

“It is a very good height indeed!” said the Caterpillar angrily, rearing itself upright as it spoke (it was exactly three inches high).

“But I’m not used to it!” pleaded poor Alice in a piteous tone. And she thought to herself, “I wish the creatures wouldn’t be so easily offended!”

“You’ll get used to it in time,” said the Caterpillar; and it put the hookah into its mouth and began smoking again.

This time Alice waited patiently until it chose to speak again.

In a minute or two the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its mouth, and yawned once or twice, and shook itself. Then it got down off the mushroom, and crawled away into the grass, merely remarking as it went, “One side will make you grow taller, and the other side will make you grow shorter.”

“One side of what? The other side of what?” thought Alice to herself.

“Of the mushroom,” said the Caterpillar, just as if she had asked it aloud, and in another moment it was out of sight.

Alice remained looking thoughtfully at the mushroom for a minute, trying to make out which were the two sides of it; and, as it was perfectly round, she found this a very difficult question. However, at last she stretched her arms round it as far as they would go, and broke off a bit of the edge with each hand.

“And now which is which?” she said to herself, and nibbled a little of the right-hand bit to try the effect: the next moment she felt a violent blow underneath her chin: it had struck her foot! She was a good deal frightened by this very sudden change, but she felt that there was no time to be lost, as she was shrinking rapidly; so she set to work at once to eat some of the other bit. Her chin was pressed so closely against her foot, that there was hardly room to open her mouth; but she did it at last, and managed to swallow a morsel of the left-hand bit.

“Come, my head’s free at last!” said Alice in a tone of delight, which changed into alarm in another moment, when she found that her shoulders were nowhere to be found: all she could see, when she looked down, was an immense length of neck, which seemed to rise like a stalk out of a sea of green leaves that lay far below her.

“What can all that green stuff be?” said Alice. “And where have my shoulders got to? And oh, my poor hands, how is it I can’t see you?”

She was moving them about as she spoke, but no result seemed to follow, except a little shaking among the distant green leaves. As there seemed to be no chance of getting her hands up to her head, she tried to get her head down to them, and was delighted to find that her neck would bend about easily in any direction, like a serpent. She had just succeeded in curving it down into a graceful zigzag, and was going to dive in among the leaves, which she found to be nothing but the tops of the trees under which she had been wandering, when a sharp hiss made her draw back in a hurry: a large pigeon had flown into her face, and was beating her violently with its wings.

“Serpent!” screamed the Pigeon.

“I’m not a serpent!” said Alice indignantly. “Let me alone!”

“Serpent, I say again!” repeated the Pigeon, but in a more subdued tone, and added with a kind of sob, “I’ve tried every way, and nothing seems to suit them!”

“I haven’t the least idea what you’re talking about,” said Alice.

“I’ve tried the roots of trees, and I’ve tried banks, and I’ve tried hedges,” the Pigeon went on, without attending to her; “but those serpents! There’s no pleasing them!”

Alice was more and more puzzled, but she thought there was no use in saying anything more till the Pigeon had finished.

“As if it wasn’t trouble enough hatching the eggs,” said the Pigeon; “but I must be on the look-out for serpents night and day! Why, I haven’t had a wink of sleep these three weeks!”

“I’m very sorry you’ve been annoyed,” said Alice, who was beginning to see its meaning.

“And just as I’d taken the highest tree in the wood,” continued the Pigeon, raising its voice to a shriek, “and just as I was thinking I should be free of them at last, they must needs come wriggling down from the sky! Ugh! Serpent!”

“But I’m not a serpent, I tell you!” said Alice. “I’m a—— I’m a——”

“Well! What are you?” said the Pigeon. “I can see you’re trying to invent something!”

“I—I’m a little girl,” said Alice, rather doubtfully, as she remembered the number of changes she had gone through that day.

“A likely story indeed!” said the Pigeon in a tone of the deepest contempt. “I’ve seen a good many little girls in my time, but never one with such a neck as that! No, no! You’re a serpent; and there’s no use denying it. I suppose you’ll be telling me next that you never tasted an egg!”

“I have tasted eggs, certainly,” said Alice, who was a very truthful child; “but little girls eat eggs quite as much as serpents do, you know.”

“I don’t believe it,” said the Pigeon; “but if they do, why then they’re a kind of serpent, that’s all I can say.”

This was such a new idea to Alice, that she was quite silent for a minute or two, which gave the Pigeon the opportunity of adding, “You’re looking for eggs, I know that well enough; and what does it matter to me whether you’re a little girl or a serpent?”

“It matters a good deal to me,” said Alice hastily; “but I’m not looking for eggs, as it happens; and if I was, I shouldn’t want yours: I don’t like them raw.”

“Well, be off, then!” said the Pigeon in a sulky tone, as it settled down again into its nest.

Alice crouched down among the trees as well as she could, for her neck kept getting entangled among the branches, and every now and then she had to stop and untwist it. After a while she remembered that she still held the pieces of mushroom in her hands, and she set to work very carefully, nibbling first at one and then at the other, and growing sometimes taller and sometimes shorter, until she had succeeded in bringing herself down to her usual height.

It was so long since she had been anything near the right size, that it felt quite strange at first, but she got used to it in a few minutes, and began talking to herself as usual.

“Come, there’s half my plan done now! How puzzling all these changes are! I’m never sure what I’m going to be, from one minute to another! However, I’ve got back to my right size: the next thing is, to get into that beautiful garden—how is that to be done, I wonder?”

As she said this, she came suddenly upon an open place, with a little house in it about four feet high.

“Whoever lives there,” thought Alice, “it’ll never do to come upon them this size: why, I should frighten them out of their wits!” So she began nibbling at the right-hand bit again, and did not venture to go near the house till she had brought herself down to nine inches high.
CHAPTER VI. PIG AND PEPPER.

FOR a minute or two Alice stood looking at the house, wondering what to do next, when suddenly a footman in livery came running out of the wood—(she considered him a footman because he wore livery; otherwise, judging by his face only, she would have called him a fish)—and rapped loudly at the door with his knuckles. Another footman opened the door, also in livery, with a round face and large eyes like a frog; both had powdered hair curling all over their heads. Alice crept a little way out of the wood to listen, curious about what was happening.

The Fish-Footman produced a large letter from under his arm and solemnly handed it to the other, saying, “For the Duchess. An invitation from the Queen to play croquet.” The Frog-Footman repeated it with the words slightly rearranged, “From the Queen. An invitation for the Duchess to play croquet.” Then they both bowed, and their curls got tangled together. Alice laughed so much she had to run back into the wood, and when she peeped again, the Fish-Footman was gone, and the other was sitting on the ground staring at the sky.

Alice timidly knocked at the door. “There’s no use in knocking,” said the Footman, “for two reasons. First, I’m on the same side of the door as you. Secondly, they’re making such a noise inside, no one could hear you.” Indeed, there was constant howling and sneezing, with occasional crashes as dishes or kettles broke.

“How am I to get in?” asked Alice.

“You might knock if you were inside, then I could let you out,” said the Footman, still looking at the sky. Alice thought this decidedly uncivil but opened the door anyway.

The kitchen was full of smoke. The Duchess sat on a three-legged stool nursing a baby; the cook stirred a large cauldron of soup. Alice noticed the air was thick with pepper. Even the Duchess sneezed occasionally, and the baby sneezed and howled without pause. Only the cook and a large grinning cat on the hearth remained unaffected.

“Why does your cat grin like that?” asked Alice timidly.

“It’s a Cheshire cat,” said the Duchess. “That’s why. Pig!” She suddenly shouted at the baby, not Alice.

Alice conversed with the Duchess about grinning cats, discovering most cats could grin. The cook, meanwhile, threw pots and pans at the Duchess and baby, who seemed oblivious to the blows.

Alice caught the baby, a strange creature twisting like a starfish. The baby had stopped sneezing but grunted. “If you’re going to turn into a pig, I’ll have nothing to do with you,” said Alice. Soon it did turn into a pig, and she set it down, relieved to see it trot quietly into the wood.

Alice then noticed the Cheshire Cat perched on a tree branch. “Which way ought I to walk from here?” she asked.

“That depends on where you want to go,” said the Cat.

“I don’t much care where—so long as I get somewhere,” Alice explained.

“Oh, you’re sure to do that if you walk long enough,” said the Cat. Alice asked about the people nearby.

“In that direction,” the Cat waved one paw, “lives a Hatter; and in that direction,” waving the other, “lives a March Hare. Both are mad.”

Alice protested she didn’t want to go among mad people. “You can’t help that,” said the Cat. “We’re all mad here. I’m mad. You’re mad.”

“How do you know I’m mad?” asked Alice.

“You must be, or you wouldn’t have come here,” said the Cat.

Alice doubted this, then asked how the Cat knew it was mad.

“Well,” said the Cat, “dogs growl when angry and wag tails when pleased. I growl when pleased and wag when angry. Therefore I’m mad.”

Alice inquired about croquet with the Queen, and the Cat told her she’d see him there, then vanished. When asked about the baby, Alice explained it had turned into a pig, as the Cat had predicted.

Alice walked toward the March Hare’s house, pondering the Hatter’s madness. She saw the Cheshire Cat again.

“Did you say pig or fig?” asked the Cat.

“Pig,” said Alice, wishing it wouldn’t appear and vanish so suddenly.

“All right,” said the Cat, vanishing slowly this time, leaving its grin behind.

Alice marveled, “I’ve often seen a cat without a grin, but a grin without a cat—most curious!”

She soon reached the March Hare’s house. It looked right, with chimneys like ears and a thatched roof of fur. Alice nibbled some mushroom to raise herself to two feet high, approaching timidly, hoping it wouldn’t be too mad after all, thinking, “I almost wish I’d gone to see the Hatter instead!”

CHAPTER VII. A MAD TEA-PARTY.

There was a table set under a tree in front of the house. The March Hare and the Hatter were having tea, with a Dormouse sitting between them, fast asleep, used as a cushion as they rested their elbows on it. “Very uncomfortable for the Dormouse,” thought Alice, “but it’s asleep, so I suppose it doesn’t mind.”

The table was large, yet all three were crowded at one corner. “No room! No room!” they cried when they saw Alice.

“There’s plenty of room!” said Alice indignantly, sitting in a large arm-chair at one end.

“Have some wine,” said the March Hare encouragingly.

“I don’t see any wine,” Alice remarked.

“There isn’t any,” said the March Hare.

“Then it wasn’t very civil of you to offer it,” said Alice angrily.

“It wasn’t very civil of you to sit without being invited,” said the March Hare.

“I didn’t know it was your table,” said Alice. “It’s laid for many more than three.”

“Your hair wants cutting,” said the Hatter, looking at Alice curiously.

“You should learn not to make personal remarks,” Alice replied severely.

The Hatter’s eyes opened wide, but he only said, “Why is a raven like a writing-desk?”

Alice thought, “I can guess that,” and the March Hare asked if she meant she could find the answer.

“I do,” she hastily replied.

“Not the same thing!” said the Hatter. “It’s like saying ‘I see what I eat’ is the same as ‘I eat what I see!’”

The March Hare added, “Or ‘I like what I get’ is the same as ‘I get what I like’!”

The Dormouse mumbled from its sleep, “Or ‘I breathe when I sleep’ is the same as ‘I sleep when I breathe’!”

The conversation paused while Alice thought about ravens and writing-desks, which wasn’t much.

“What day of the month is it?” the Hatter asked, shaking his watch.

“The fourth,” Alice answered.

“Two days wrong!” sighed the Hatter. “I told you butter wouldn’t suit the works!”

“It was the best butter,” said the March Hare meekly.

Alice noticed the Hatter’s watch told the day but not the hour.

“Why should it?” muttered the Hatter.

“My watch doesn’t tell the year,” said Alice.

“Which is just the case with mine,” said the Hatter.

The Dormouse was asleep again, so the Hatter poured hot tea on its nose. It shook its head impatiently.

“Have you guessed the riddle yet?” the Hatter asked Alice.

“No, I give it up. What’s the answer?”

“I haven’t the slightest idea,” said the Hatter.

“Nor I,” said the March Hare.

Alice sighed. “You might do something better with the time than waste it on riddles with no answers.”

“If you knew Time as well as I do,” said the Hatter, “you wouldn’t talk of wasting it. It’s him.”

Alice mentioned she beats time when learning music.

“Ah! That accounts for it,” said the Hatter. “He won’t stand beating. If you kept on good terms with him, he’d do anything you liked with the clock. Suppose it’s nine o’clock—just whisper a hint to Time, and round goes the clock! Half-past one, time for dinner!”

“That would be grand,” said Alice thoughtfully.

The Hatter shook his head. “Not I! We quarrelled last March—just before he went mad—at the great concert by the Queen of Hearts. I had to sing ‘Twinkle, twinkle, little bat! How I wonder what you’re at!’”

“I’ve heard something like it,” said Alice.

The Dormouse began singing in its sleep, “Twinkle, twinkle, twinkle, twinkle—” until it had to be pinched to stop.

“Well, I’d hardly finished the first verse,” said the Hatter, “when the Queen bawled, ‘He’s murdering the time! Off with his head!’”

Alice exclaimed, “How dreadfully savage!”

Ever since, the Hatter said mournfully, “It’s always six o’clock now.”

Alice guessed, “Is that why so many tea-things are put out here?”

“Yes, it’s always tea-time, and we have no time to wash things,” said the Hatter.

“Then you keep moving round?” Alice asked.

“Exactly,” said the Hatter.

“When you come to the beginning again?” Alice ventured.

The March Hare interrupted, “Let’s change the subject. I vote the young lady tells us a story.”

“I don’t know one,” said Alice.

“Then the Dormouse shall!” cried both, pinching it awake.

“I wasn’t asleep,” said the Dormouse hoarsely.

“Tell us a story!” said the March Hare.

“Once upon a time, there were three little sisters—Elsie, Lacie, and Tillie—they lived at the bottom of a well—”

“What did they live on?” asked Alice.

“Treacle,” said the Dormouse after thinking.

“They’d have been ill,” Alice said gently.

“So they were,” said the Dormouse.

“But why at the bottom of a well?” Alice asked.

“Take some more tea,” said the March Hare.

“I’ve had nothing yet,” Alice replied.

“You mean, you can’t take less,” said the Hatter.

“Who’s making personal remarks now?” asked Alice.

She helped herself to tea and bread-and-butter, and asked the Dormouse again why they lived in a well.

“It was a treacle-well,” said the Dormouse.

“There’s no such thing!” Alice began angrily, but the Hatter and March Hare shushed her.

“If you can’t be civil, finish the story yourself,” sulked the Dormouse.

“No, please go on!” Alice said humbly.

“And so, the three little sisters—they were learning to draw,” continued the Dormouse.

“What did they draw?” said Alice.

“Treacle,” said the Dormouse.

“I want a clean cup,” interrupted the Hatter. “Let’s all move one place on.”

The Dormouse followed; the March Hare moved into its place; Alice took the March Hare’s place reluctantly.

Alice cautiously asked, “But where did they draw the treacle from?”

“You can draw water from a water-well; why not treacle from a treacle-well?” said the Hatter.

“But they were in the well,” Alice said, ignoring the remark.

“Of course they were—well in,” said the Dormouse, confusing Alice.

“They drew all manner of things—everything that begins with an M—”

“Why M?” asked Alice.

“Why not?” said the March Hare.

The Dormouse, dozing, was pinched awake and went on, “Mousetraps, the moon, memory, and muchness—you know ‘much of a muchness.’ Did you ever see a drawing of a muchness?”

“I don’t think—” said Alice, confused.

“Then you shouldn’t talk,” said the Hatter.

This rudeness was too much; Alice got up in disgust and walked off. The Dormouse fell asleep instantly, and neither Hatter nor March Hare noticed her leaving.

“I’ll never go there again!” said Alice as she picked her way through the wood. “It’s the stupidest tea-party ever!”

She noticed a tree with a door in it. “That’s curious! But everything’s curious today. I may as well go in at once.”

Inside, she found herself in the long hall near the little glass table. Taking the golden key, she unlocked the door to the garden, nibbled mushroom to shrink to a foot high, walked down the passage, and finally arrived in the beautiful garden with bright flowerbeds and cool fountains.

CHAPTER VIII. THE QUEEN’S CROQUET-GROUND.

A large rose-tree stood near the garden entrance. Its roses were white, but three gardeners were busily painting them red. Alice thought this curious and went closer.

“Look out, Five! Don’t splash paint on me!” said one gardener.

“I couldn’t help it,” said Five sulkily; “Seven jogged my elbow.”

“That’s right, Five! Always blame others!” said Seven.

“You’d better not talk!” Five warned. “I heard the Queen say yesterday you deserved to be beheaded!”

“For what?” asked the first gardener.

“That’s none of your business, Two!” Seven snapped.

“Yes it is! It was for bringing tulip-roots instead of onions,” Five explained.

Seven flung down his brush, but stopped suddenly as he saw Alice. The others looked, and all bowed low.

“Would you tell me, please,” Alice asked timidly, “why you are painting those roses?”

Five and Seven looked at Two. In a low voice, Two explained, “This was supposed to be a red rose-tree, but we planted a white one by mistake. If the Queen finds out, we’d all lose our heads. So we’re doing our best before she comes.”

At that moment, Five called, “The Queen! The Queen!” The three gardeners threw themselves flat. Alice looked eagerly to see the Queen.

First came ten soldiers carrying clubs, shaped like the gardeners, oblong and flat with hands and feet at the corners. Then ten courtiers decorated with diamonds, walking two and two. Next were the royal children, ten little dears ornamented with hearts, jumping merrily in couples. After them came the guests, mostly Kings and Queens. Among them, Alice recognized the White Rabbit, speaking nervously and smiling, but passing by without noticing her. Then followed the Knave of Hearts carrying the King’s crown, and last came the King and Queen of Hearts.

Alice wondered if she should lie down like the gardeners but decided it made no sense. She stood and waited.

When the procession reached her, all stopped. The Queen asked the Knave, “Who is this?” He only bowed and smiled.

“Idiot!” said the Queen impatiently, then to Alice, “What’s your name, child?”

“My name is Alice, please your Majesty,” she said politely, thinking, “They’re only cards, I needn’t be afraid.”

“And who are these?” said the Queen, pointing to the three gardeners lying near the rose-tree.

“How should I know?” said Alice boldly. “It’s no business of mine.”

The Queen turned crimson, glaring like a wild beast, and screamed, “Off with her head! Off—”

“Nonsense!” Alice said loudly and decidedly. The Queen fell silent. The King gently added, “Consider, my dear, she’s only a child!”

The Queen, angry, told the Knave, “Turn them over!” He did, carefully, with one foot.

“Get up!” shouted the Queen. The gardeners jumped and bowed to everyone.

“Leave off that!” screamed the Queen. “You make me giddy.” She turned to the rose-tree, “What have you been doing here?”

“May it please your Majesty,” Two said humbly, “we were trying—”

“I see!” said the Queen, examining the roses. “Off with their heads!” Three soldiers stayed behind to execute the gardeners, who ran to Alice for protection.

“You shan’t be beheaded!” said Alice, putting them into a large flower-pot. The soldiers wandered a minute, then rejoined the procession.

“Are their heads off?” shouted the Queen.

“They’re gone, if it please your Majesty!” the soldiers replied.

“That’s right!” shouted the Queen. “Can you play croquet?” She looked at Alice.

“Yes!” shouted Alice, and joined the procession, wondering what would happen next.

“It’s a very fine day!” said a timid voice at her side. It was the White Rabbit, peeking anxiously.

“Very,” said Alice. “Where’s the Duchess?”

“Hush! She’s under sentence of execution,” whispered the Rabbit.

“What for?” asked Alice.

“She boxed the Queen’s ears—” began the Rabbit. Alice laughed and the Rabbit hushed her, afraid the Queen would hear.

“Get to your places!” shouted the Queen. People ran about, but soon settled, and the game began.

Alice thought the croquet-ground was the oddest she had ever seen: ridges and furrows everywhere; the croquet-balls were live hedgehogs, mallets were live flamingoes, and soldiers doubled up to make arches. Managing her flamingo was tricky: its neck would twist up, making her laugh, or the hedgehogs would crawl away. Soldiers kept moving, ridges blocked her shots, and all played at once, quarreling.

The Queen stamped, shouting “Off with his head!” or “Off with her head!” every minute. Alice felt uneasy, wondering when it might be her turn.

Looking for escape, she noticed a grin in the air. “It’s the Cheshire Cat!” she thought, glad to have someone to talk to.

“How are you getting on?” said the Cat, as soon as its mouth appeared. Alice waited for its eyes to appear before replying.

Soon the whole head appeared, and Alice put down her flamingo to tell it about the game.

“It’s no use speaking to it,” she thought, “till its ears appear.”

The Cat listened, seemingly satisfied.

“They play unfairly,” Alice said. “All quarrel, no one follows rules, and everything being alive is confusing. My next arch is at the far end, and I missed hitting the Queen’s hedgehog—it ran away!”

“How do you like the Queen?” asked the Cat.

“Not at all,” said Alice. “She’s so extremely—” She noticed the Queen close behind, listening, and added, “likely to win, hardly worth finishing the game.” The Queen smiled and passed on.

“Who are you talking to?” said the King, curious about the Cat’s head.

“It’s a friend—a Cheshire Cat,” Alice said.

“I don’t like it,” said the King. “It may kiss my hand if it likes.”

“I’d rather not,” said the Cat.

“Don’t be impertinent!” said the King. “Don’t look at me like that!”

“A cat may look at a king,” said Alice.

“Well, it must be removed,” said the King, calling the Queen.

“Off with his head!” said the Queen.

“I’ll fetch the executioner myself,” said the King, hurrying off.

Alice returned to see the game. The Queen had already sentenced three players for missing turns. The game was in chaos: Alice never knew whose turn it was.

She went after her hedgehog, which was fighting another. Her flamingo had wandered across the garden, trying to fly into a tree. She retrieved it and returned to the Cat.

A large crowd had gathered. The executioner, King, and Queen argued at once, while the rest of the party looked uncomfortable. Alice was appealed to for a decision.

The executioner argued that you cannot cut off a head without a body.

The King said anything with a head could be beheaded, and that nonsense shouldn’t be spoken.

The Queen threatened that if action wasn’t taken immediately, everyone would be executed.

Alice could only say, “It belongs to the Duchess; you’d better ask her.”

“She’s in prison,” said the Queen. “Fetch her here.” The executioner ran off like an arrow.

The Cat’s head began fading as he left, and by the time he returned with the Duchess, it had disappeared entirely. The King and executioner ran wildly looking for it, while the rest resumed the game.

CHAPTER IX. THE MOCK TURTLE’S STORY.

“You can’t think how glad I am to see you again, you dear old thing!” said the Duchess, linking her arm with Alice’s as they walked together. Alice was pleased to find her in a pleasant mood and thought that perhaps it was only the pepper that had made her so savage in the kitchen.

“When I’m a Duchess,” Alice thought, “I won’t have any pepper at all. Soup does very well without—Maybe it’s pepper that makes people hot-tempered, vinegar makes them sour, camomile makes them bitter, and barley-sugar makes children sweet-tempered. I wish people knew that; then they wouldn’t be so stingy about it.”

She had nearly forgotten the Duchess when she heard her voice close to her ear.

“You’re thinking, my dear, and forgetting to talk. I can’t tell you the moral of that just now, but I’ll remember it.”

“Perhaps it hasn’t one,” Alice ventured.

“Tut, tut, child! Everything has a moral, if only you can find it.” The Duchess snuggled closer as she spoke.

Alice didn’t much like being so close: the Duchess was very ugly, and her chin rested sharply on Alice’s shoulder. But she didn’t wish to be rude.

“The game’s going better now,” Alice said to continue the conversation.

“’Tis so,” said the Duchess. “And the moral of that is—‘Oh, ’tis love, ’tis love, that makes the world go round!’”

“Somebody said,” Alice whispered, “it’s done by everyone minding their own business!”

“Ah well! Much the same thing,” said the Duchess, pressing her chin into Alice’s shoulder, “and the moral of that is—‘Take care of the sense, and the sounds will take care of themselves.’”

Alice thought to herself how fond the Duchess was of finding morals in everything.

“You’re wondering why I don’t put my arm round your waist,” the Duchess continued, “the reason is, I doubt your flamingo’s temper. Shall I try the experiment?”

“He might bite,” Alice replied cautiously.

“Very true,” said the Duchess, “flamingoes and mustard both bite. Moral: ‘Birds of a feather flock together.’”

“Only mustard isn’t a bird,” Alice remarked.

“Right, as usual,” said the Duchess. “What a clear way you have of putting things!”

“It’s a mineral, I think,” said Alice.

“Of course it is,” said the Duchess. “There’s a large mustard-mine near here. Moral: ‘The more there is of mine, the less there is of yours.’”

“Oh, I know!” said Alice. “It’s a vegetable. It doesn’t look like one, but it is.”

“I quite agree,” said the Duchess. “Moral: ‘Be what you would seem to be’—or more simply: ‘Never imagine yourself not to be otherwise than what it might appear to others that what you were or might have been was not otherwise than what you had been would have appeared to them to be otherwise.’”

Alice politely said she would understand it better if written down.

“That’s nothing to what I could say if I chose,” the Duchess replied.

“Pray don’t trouble yourself further,” said Alice.

“Oh, don’t talk of trouble!” said the Duchess. “I give you everything I’ve said as a present.”

“A cheap sort of present!” thought Alice, glad birthdays weren’t celebrated like that.

“Thinking again?” asked the Duchess, digging her chin.

“I have a right to think,” said Alice sharply.

“Just as much right,” said the Duchess, “as pigs have to fly: and the m—”

Her voice died away mid-word, and her arm trembled. Alice looked up to find the Queen frowning in front of them.

“A fine day, your Majesty!” said the Duchess weakly.

“Now, I give you fair warning,” shouted the Queen, stamping. “Either you or your head must be off, in half no time! Take your choice!”

The Duchess chose, and was gone in a moment.

“Let’s continue the game,” said the Queen. Alice, too frightened to speak, followed slowly. Other guests returned to the game, while the Queen continued shouting “Off with his head!” or “Off with her head!” Those sentenced were taken by soldiers, who had to leave off being arches, so by half an hour all players except the King, Queen, and Alice were in custody, under sentence of execution.

The Queen, out of breath, asked Alice, “Have you seen the Mock Turtle yet?”

“No,” said Alice. “I don’t know what a Mock Turtle is.”

“It’s what Mock Turtle Soup is made from,” said the Queen.

“I never saw or heard of one,” said Alice.

“Come on, then,” said the Queen, “and he shall tell you his history.”

As they walked, Alice heard the King whisper, “You are all pardoned.” Alice was glad at this.

Soon they came upon a Gryphon, lying asleep in the sun.

“Up, lazy thing!” said the Queen. “Take this young lady to see the Mock Turtle, and hear his history. I must return to my executions.”

Alice, unsure of the Gryphon, thought it safer to stay with it than to follow the Queen. The Gryphon rubbed its eyes, watched the Queen go, then chuckled.

“What fun!” it said.

“What fun?” asked Alice.

“Why, her,” said the Gryphon. “It’s all her fancy; they never execute anyone. Come on!”

Alice, thinking everyone says “come on!” here, followed slowly.

In the distance, they saw the Mock Turtle, sitting sadly on a rock ledge, sighing as if his heart would break. Alice asked the Gryphon what his sorrow was.

“It’s all his fancy; he hasn’t sorrow,” said the Gryphon.

They approached the Mock Turtle, who looked with tearful eyes but said nothing.

“This young lady,” said the Gryphon, “wants to know your history.”

“I’ll tell it,” said the Mock Turtle in a deep, hollow tone. “Sit down, both of you, and don’t speak till I’ve finished.”

Alice thought it might never end if he didn’t begin, but she waited patiently.

“Once,” said the Mock Turtle with a sigh, “I was a real Turtle.”

A long silence followed, broken by Gryphon’s “Hjckrrh!” and the Mock Turtle’s sobs. Alice nearly thanked him for the story but stayed, sensing more to come.

“When we were little,” the Mock Turtle continued, calmer but still sobbing, “we went to school in the sea. The master was an old Turtle—we called him Tortoise—”

“Why call him Tortoise if he wasn’t one?” Alice asked.

“Because he taught us!” said the Mock Turtle angrily. “You are very dull!”

“You ought to be ashamed of asking such a simple question,” added the Gryphon. Alice felt ready to sink into the earth.

“Drive on, old fellow! Don’t dawdle!” said the Gryphon.

“Yes, we went to school in the sea, though you mayn’t believe it—”

“I never said I didn’t!” interrupted Alice.

“You did,” said the Mock Turtle.

“Hold your tongue!” added the Gryphon.

The Mock Turtle went on: “We had the best educations—school every day—”

“I’ve been to a day-school too,” said Alice.

“With extras?” asked the Mock Turtle anxiously.

“Yes, French and music,” Alice replied.

“And washing?” said the Mock Turtle.

“Certainly not!” Alice said indignantly.

“Ah! Then yours wasn’t a really good school,” said the Mock Turtle. “At ours they had, at the end, ‘French, music, and washing—extra.’”

“You couldn’t have wanted it much living at the bottom of the sea,” said Alice.

“I only took the regular course,” sighed the Mock Turtle.

“What was that?” asked Alice.

“Reeling and Writhing, of course, then Arithmetic—Ambition, Distraction, Uglification, and Derision.”

“I never heard of ‘Uglification,’” said Alice.

“What is it?”

The Gryphon lifted its paws in surprise. “Never heard of uglifying! You know what beautify is, I suppose?”

“Yes,” said Alice, “to make anything prettier.”

“Well then,” said the Gryphon, “if you don’t know to uglify, you are a simpleton.”

Alice didn’t ask more, and turned to the Mock Turtle.

“What else had you to learn?”

“Well, there was Mystery,” said the Mock Turtle, counting on his flappers, “ancient and modern, with Seaography; then Drawling—the Drawling-master, an old conger-eel, taught Drawling, Stretching, and Fainting in Coils.”

“What was that like?” asked Alice.

“I can’t show you, I’m too stiff, and the Gryphon never learnt it.”

“Hadn’t time,” said the Gryphon. “I went to the Classical master, an old crab.”

“I never went,” sighed the Mock Turtle. “He taught Laughing and Grief.”

“So he did,” said the Gryphon, sighing, hiding his face.

“How many hours a day were lessons?” asked Alice.

“Ten the first day, nine the next, and so on.”

“What a curious plan!” exclaimed Alice.

“That’s why they’re called lessons,” said the Gryphon, “because they lessen from day to day.”

Alice thought this over before asking, “Then the eleventh day must have been a holiday?”

“Of course,” said the Mock Turtle.

“And the twelfth?” asked Alice eagerly.

“That’s enough about lessons,” interrupted the Gryphon firmly. “Tell her about the games now.”

CHAPTER X. THE LOBSTER QUADRILLE.

The Mock Turtle sighed deeply and wiped one flapper across his eyes. He looked at Alice and tried to speak, but sobs choked his voice for a minute or two.

“Same as if he had a bone in his throat,” said the Gryphon, shaking and punching him gently. At last, the Mock Turtle recovered, and with tears running down his cheeks, he continued:

“You may not have lived much under the sea—”

“I haven’t,” said Alice.

“And perhaps you were never introduced to a lobster—”

Alice began to say, “I once tasted—” but stopped herself and said, “No, never.”

“So you can have no idea what a delightful thing a Lobster Quadrille is!”

“No, indeed,” said Alice.

“What sort of dance is it?”

“Why,” said the Gryphon, “you first form into a line along the seashore—”

“Two lines!” cried the Mock Turtle.

“Seals, turtles, salmon, and so on; then, when all the jelly-fish are out of the way—”

“That generally takes some time,” interrupted the Gryphon.

“You advance twice—”

“Each with a lobster as a partner!” cried the Gryphon.

“Of course,” said the Mock Turtle. “Advance twice, set to partners—”

“Change lobsters, and retire in the same order,” continued the Gryphon.

“Then, you know,” the Mock Turtle went on, “you throw the—”

“The lobsters!” shouted the Gryphon, leaping into the air.

“As far out to sea as you can—”

“Swim after them!” screamed the Gryphon.

“Turn a somersault in the sea!” cried the Mock Turtle, capering wildly.

“Change lobsters again!” yelled the Gryphon.

“Back to land, and—that’s all the first figure,” said the Mock Turtle, suddenly dropping his voice. The two creatures, who had been jumping madly, sat down quietly and looked at Alice.

“It must be a very pretty dance,” said Alice timidly.

“Would you like to see a little of it?” asked the Mock Turtle.

“Very much indeed,” said Alice.

“Come, let’s try the first figure!” said the Mock Turtle to the Gryphon. “We can do it without lobsters. Who shall sing?”

“Oh, you sing,” said the Gryphon.

“I’ve forgotten the words.”

So they solemnly danced round and round Alice, occasionally treading on her toes, waving their fore-paws to mark the time, while the Mock Turtle sang slowly and sadly:

“Will you walk a little faster?” said a whiting to a snail,
“There’s a porpoise close behind us, and he’s treading on my tail.
See how eagerly the lobsters and the turtles all advance!
They are waiting on the shingle—will you come and join the dance?
Will you, won’t you, will you, won’t you, will you join the dance?
Will you, won’t you, will you, won’t you, won’t you join the dance?

“You can really have no notion how delightful it will be
When they take us up and throw us, with the lobsters, out to sea!”

But the snail replied, “Too far, too far!” and gave a look askance.
He thanked the whiting kindly, but would not join the dance.
Would not, could not, would not, could not, would not join the dance.
Would not, could not, would not, could not, could not join the dance.

“What matters how far we go?” his scaly friend replied.
“There is another shore upon the other side.
The further off from England, the nearer is to France—
Then turn not pale, beloved snail, but come and join the dance.
Will you, won’t you, will you, won’t you, will you join the dance?
Will you, won’t you, will you, won’t you, won’t you join the dance?”

“Thank you, it’s a very interesting dance to watch,” said Alice, relieved it was over. “And I like that curious song about the whiting!”

“Oh, as to the whiting,” said the Mock Turtle, “you’ve seen them, of course?”

“Yes,” said Alice, “I’ve often seen them at dinn—” she checked herself hastily.

“I don’t know where Dinn may be,” said the Mock Turtle, “but if you’ve seen them so often, you know what they’re like.”

“I believe so,” Alice replied. “They have their tails in their mouths, and they’re all over crumbs.”

“You’re wrong about the crumbs,” said the Mock Turtle. “Crumbs would wash off in the sea. But they have their tails in their mouths; and the reason is—” he yawned and shut his eyes. “Tell her about the reason and all that,” he said to the Gryphon.

“The reason is,” said the Gryphon, “that they would go with the lobsters to the dance. So they got thrown out to sea. They had to fall a long way. Their tails got caught in their mouths, and they couldn’t get them out again. That’s all.”

“Thank you,” said Alice. “It’s very interesting. I never knew so much about a whiting before.”

“I can tell you more,” said the Gryphon. “Do you know why it’s called a whiting?”

“I never thought about it,” said Alice. “Why?”

“It does the boots and shoes,” said the Gryphon solemnly.

Alice was puzzled. “Does the boots and shoes!”

“Yes, what makes them so shiny?”

“They’re done with blacking, I believe,” Alice answered.

“Boots and shoes under the sea are done with whiting. Now you know.”

“And what are they made of?” asked Alice.

“Soles and eels, of course,” said the Gryphon impatiently.

“If I’d been the whiting,” said Alice, “I’d have told the porpoise, ‘Keep back, please! We don’t want you with us!’”

“They had to have him,” said the Mock Turtle. “No wise fish would go anywhere without a porpoise.”

“Wouldn’t it really?” said Alice in surprise.

“Of course not,” said the Mock Turtle. “Why, if a fish came to me and said he was going on a journey, I should ask, ‘With what porpoise?’”

“Don’t you mean ‘purpose’?” said Alice.

“I mean what I say,” replied the Mock Turtle, offended.

The Gryphon added, “Come, let’s hear some of your adventures.”

“I could tell my adventures—starting this morning,” said Alice timidly, “but no use going back to yesterday; I was a different person then.”

“Explain later,” said the Mock Turtle.

“No, adventures first,” said the Gryphon. “Explanations take too long.”

So Alice began telling her adventures from the time she first saw the White Rabbit. She was nervous at first, as the two creatures leaned close, eyes and mouths wide, but gained courage as she went on. They were quiet until she reached the part about repeating “You are old, Father William” to the Caterpillar, with the words all coming differently.

“That’s very curious,” said the Mock Turtle.

“It’s all about as curious as it can be,” said the Gryphon.

“It all came different!” repeated the Mock Turtle thoughtfully. “I’d like to hear her repeat something now. Tell her to begin.”

He looked at the Gryphon, as if it had authority over Alice.

“Stand up and repeat ‘’Tis the voice of the sluggard,’” said the Gryphon.

Alice thought, “How they order one about! I might as well be at school.” She stood and began, head full of the Lobster-Quadrille, and the words came very queerly:

“’Tis the voice of the lobster; I heard him declare,
‘You have baked me too brown, I must sugar my hair.’
As a duck with its eyelids, so he with his nose
Trims his belt and his buttons, and turns out his toes.”

“That’s different from what I used to say as a child,” said the Gryphon.

“Well, I never heard it before,” said the Mock Turtle; “but it sounds uncommon nonsense.”

Alice sat down again, face in her hands, wondering if anything would happen naturally.

“I should like it explained,” said the Mock Turtle.

“She can’t explain it,” said the Gryphon hastily.

“Go on with the next verse.”

“But about his toes?” the Mock Turtle persisted.

“It’s the first position in dancing,” Alice said, puzzled and wanting to change the subject.

“Go on with the next verse,” repeated the Gryphon. “It begins, ‘I passed by his garden.’”

Alice, not daring to disobey, went on:

“I passed by his garden, and marked, with one eye,
How the owl and the oyster were sharing a pie—”

“What’s the use of repeating all that if you don’t explain it?” interrupted the Mock Turtle. “It’s the most confusing thing I ever heard!”

“Yes, better leave off,” said the Gryphon, and Alice was glad to stop.

“Shall we try another figure of the Lobster-Quadrille?” asked the Gryphon.
“Or would you like the Mock Turtle to sing a song?”

“Oh, a song, please,” said Alice eagerly.

“Sing her ‘Turtle Soup,’ old fellow,” said the Gryphon in a slightly offended tone.

The Mock Turtle sighed deeply, and began, sometimes choked with sobs:

“Beautiful Soup, so rich and green,
Waiting in a hot tureen!
Who for such dainties would not stoop?
Soup of the evening, beautiful Soup!
Soup of the evening, beautiful Soup!
Beau—ootiful Soo—oop! Beau—ootiful Soo—oop!
Soo—oop of the e—e—evening, Beautiful, beautiful Soup!

“Beautiful Soup! Who cares for fish,
Game, or any other dish?
Who would not give all else for two pennyworth only
Of beautiful Soup? Pennyworth only of beautiful Soup?
Beau—ootiful Soo—oop! Beau—ootiful Soo—oop!
Soo—oop of the e—e—evening, Beautiful, beauti—FUL SOUP!”

“Chorus again!” cried the Gryphon.

The Mock Turtle had just begun when a cry of “The trial’s beginning!” came from afar.

“Come on!” cried the Gryphon, taking Alice’s hand, hurrying off without waiting for the song’s end.

“What trial is it?” panted Alice.

“Come on!” said the Gryphon, running faster. More faintly, carried on the breeze, came the melancholy words:

“Soo—oop of the e—e—evening, Beautiful, beautiful Soup!”

CHAPTER XI. WHO STOLE THE TARTS?

The King and Queen of Hearts were seated on their throne when they arrived, with a great crowd assembled around them—little birds, beasts, and the whole pack of cards. The Knave stood in chains before them, guarded by a soldier on each side. Near the King was the White Rabbit, trumpet in one hand and a parchment scroll in the other.

In the middle of the court was a table with a large dish of tarts; they looked so delicious that Alice felt quite hungry. “I wish they’d get the trial done and hand out the refreshments!” she thought. But there seemed no chance of that, so she looked around to pass the time.

Alice had never been in a court before, but she had read about them in books, and she was pleased to recognize almost everything. “That’s the judge,” she said to herself, noting his great wig. The judge was, in fact, the King, wearing his crown over the wig, which looked very uncomfortable.

“And that’s the jury-box,” thought Alice, “and those twelve creatures—I suppose they are the jurors.” She repeated the word to herself a few times, proud that she knew it. The twelve jurors busily wrote on their slates.

“What are they doing?” Alice whispered to the Gryphon.

“They’re putting down their names,” the Gryphon whispered back, “so they don’t forget them before the trial ends.”

“Stupid things!” Alice began to say loudly, but stopped herself when the White Rabbit cried, “Silence in the court!” The King put on his spectacles, looking anxiously for the speaker. Alice saw that all the jurors were writing “stupid things!” on their slates, and one even had to ask a neighbor how to spell it.

“What a muddle their slates will be in before the trial’s over!” thought Alice.

One juror had a squeaky pencil. Alice, unable to stand it, crept behind him and took it away so quickly that the little juror—Bill, the Lizard—couldn’t tell what had happened. He had to write with one finger for the rest of the day, leaving no mark.

“Herald, read the accusation!” said the King. The White Rabbit blew three blasts on the trumpet and unrolled the scroll:

“The Queen of Hearts, she made some tarts,
All on a summer day:
The Knave of Hearts, he stole those tarts,
And took them quite away!”

“Consider your verdict,” the King said to the jury.

“Not yet, not yet!” the Rabbit interrupted. “There’s more to come!”

“Call the first witness,” said the King. The White Rabbit blew three blasts on the trumpet and called, “First witness!”

The first witness was the Hatter, carrying a teacup in one hand and a piece of bread-and-butter in the other.

“I beg pardon, your Majesty,” he began, “for bringing these in; I hadn’t quite finished my tea when I was sent for.”

“You ought to have finished,” said the King.

“When did you begin?”

The Hatter looked at the March Hare, who had followed him with the Dormouse.

“Fourteenth of March, I think,” said the Hatter.
“Fifteenth,” said the March Hare.
“Sixteenth,” added the Dormouse.

“Write that down,” the King said, and the jury eagerly recorded all three dates, then added them up and reduced the answer to shillings and pence.

“Take off your hat,” said the King.

“It isn’t mine,” said the Hatter.

“Stolen!” exclaimed the King. The jury instantly noted it.

“I keep them to sell,” explained the Hatter. “I have none of my own; I’m a hatter.”

The Queen put on her spectacles and stared at the Hatter, who turned pale and fidgeted.

“Give your evidence,” said the King, “and don’t be nervous, or I’ll have you executed on the spot.”

The Hatter kept shifting from one foot to the other, biting a large piece from his teacup instead of the bread-and-butter.

At that moment, Alice felt herself beginning to grow larger again. She thought at first to leave the court, but decided to stay while there was room.

“I wish you wouldn’t squeeze so,” said the Dormouse, sitting next to her.

“I can hardly breathe.”

“I can’t help it,” said Alice meekly. “I’m growing.”

“You’ve no right to grow here,” said the Dormouse.

“Don’t talk nonsense,” said Alice boldly. “You’re growing too.”

“Yes, but at a reasonable pace,” said the Dormouse, sulkily crossing to the other side.

Meanwhile, the Queen was still staring at the Hatter. She said to an officer, “Bring me the list of the singers in the last concert!” The Hatter trembled so he shook both shoes off.

“Give your evidence,” repeated the King angrily.

“I’m a poor man, your Majesty,” the Hatter began, trembling. “I’d just begun my tea, and—”

“The twinkling of what?” said the King.

“It began with the tea,” said the Hatter.

“Of course twinkling begins with a T!” said the King sharply. “Do you take me for a dunce? Go on!”

“I’m a poor man,” said the Hatter, “and most things twinkled after that—only the March Hare said—”

“I didn’t!” interrupted the March Hare.

“You did!” said the Hatter.

“I deny it!” said the March Hare.

“He denies it,” said the King. “Leave that part out.”

“Well, at any rate, the Dormouse said—”

The Hatter continued, looking to see if the Dormouse would deny it, but he was asleep.

“After that,” continued the Hatter, “I cut some more bread-and-butter—”

“But what did the Dormouse say?” asked a juror.

“I can’t remember,” said the Hatter.

“You must remember,” said the King, “or I’ll have you executed.”

The Hatter dropped his teacup and bread-and-butter, falling to one knee.

“I’m a poor man, your Majesty,” he repeated.

“You’re a very poor speaker,” said the King. A guinea-pig cheered but was immediately suppressed by the officers, who used a canvas bag to pin him down. Alice was glad to see it done.

“If that’s all, you may stand down,” continued the King.

“I can’t go lower,” said the Hatter.

“Then you may sit down,” said the King. Another guinea-pig cheered and was suppressed.

“Come, that finished the guinea-pigs! Now we shall get on better,” thought Alice.

“I’d rather finish my tea,” said the Hatter, glancing at the Queen.

“You may go,” said the King. The Hatter hurriedly left, shoes forgotten.

“——and just take his head off outside,” the Queen added, but the Hatter was gone before the officer could reach the door.

“Call the next witness!” said the King.

The next witness was the Duchess’ cook, carrying a pepper-box. Alice guessed who it was as people near the door began sneezing.

“Give your evidence,” said the King.

“Shan’t,” said the cook.

The King looked anxiously at the White Rabbit.

“Your Majesty must cross-examine this witness,” whispered the Rabbit.

“Well, if I must, I must,” said the King, folding his arms and frowning.

“What are tarts made of?” he asked.

“Pepper, mostly,” said the cook.

“Treacle,” said a sleepy voice behind her.

“Collar that Dormouse!” shrieked the Queen. “Behead him! Turn him out! Suppress him! Pinch him! Off with his whiskers!”

The court was in confusion while the Dormouse was removed, and by the time it settled, the cook had disappeared.

“Never mind!” said the King, relieved. “Call the next witness.”

He added to the Queen in an undertone, “Really, my dear, you must cross-examine the next witness. It quite makes my forehead ache!”

Alice watched the White Rabbit fumble over the list, curious who the next witness would be. Imagine her surprise when he read out, at the top of his shrill voice, the name:

“Alice!”

CHAPTER XII. ALICE’S EVIDENCE

“HERE!” cried Alice, forgetting in her excitement how much she had grown in the last few minutes. She jumped up so hastily that her skirt tipped over the jury-box, spilling all the jurymen onto the crowd below. They lay sprawling like a globe of goldfish she had accidentally upset the week before.

“Oh, I beg your pardon!” she exclaimed, dismayed, and began picking them up as quickly as she could, thinking they must be collected and put back into the jury-box, or they would die.

“The trial cannot proceed,” said the King gravely, “until all the jurymen are back in their proper places—all,” he repeated, emphasizing each word while looking at Alice. She noticed that in her haste she had put the Lizard in head downwards. The poor creature waved its tail helplessly. Alice righted it, though she thought, “It would be just as useful the other way up.”

Once the jury recovered from the shock and had their slates and pencils restored, they diligently began writing out a history of the accident—except the Lizard, who was too stunned to do anything but sit with its mouth open, gazing at the ceiling.

“What do you know about this business?” the King asked Alice.

“Nothing,” said Alice.

“Nothing whatever?” persisted the King.

“Nothing whatever,” repeated Alice.

“That’s very important,” said the King, turning to the jury. They began writing it down, when the White Rabbit interrupted, “Unimportant, your Majesty, I mean,” frowning as he spoke.

“Unimportant, of course, I meant,” said the King, muttering to himself, “important—unimportant—unimportant—important,” testing which sounded best. Some jurors wrote “important,” some “unimportant.” Alice shrugged; it didn’t matter.

The King, busy with his notebook, suddenly called, “Silence!” and read aloud, “Rule Forty-two. All persons more than a mile high to leave the court.” Everyone looked at Alice.

“I’m not a mile high,” said Alice.

“You are,” said the King.
“Nearly two miles high,” added the Queen.

“Well, I shan’t go,” said Alice, “besides, that’s not a regular rule: you invented it just now.”

“It’s the oldest rule in the book,” said the King.

“Then it ought to be Number One,” said Alice.

The King turned pale and shut his notebook. “Consider your verdict,” he said to the jury in a low, trembling voice.

“There’s more evidence to come yet, please your Majesty,” said the White Rabbit, hurriedly. “This paper has just been picked up.”

“What’s in it?” asked the Queen.

“I haven’t opened it yet,” said the Rabbit, “but it seems to be a letter, written by the prisoner to—to somebody.”

“It must have been that,” said the King, “unless it was to nobody, which isn’t usual.”

“Who is it directed to?” asked a juror.

“It isn’t directed at all,” said the White Rabbit. “In fact, there’s nothing written on the outside.” Unfolding the paper, he added, “It isn’t a letter, after all: it’s a set of verses.”

“Are they in the prisoner’s handwriting?” asked another juror.

“No, and that’s the queerest thing about it.” The jury looked puzzled.

“He must have imitated someone else’s hand,” said the King. The jury brightened.

“Please your Majesty,” said the Knave, “I didn’t write it, and they can’t prove I did: there’s no signature.”

“If you didn’t sign it,” said the King, “that only makes the matter worse. You must have meant mischief, or else you’d have signed like an honest man.”

There was clapping; it was the first clever thing the King had said that day.

“That proves his guilt,” said the Queen.
“It proves nothing of the sort!” said Alice.
“You don’t even know what it’s about!”

“Read them,” said the King. The White Rabbit put on his spectacles.

“Begin at the beginning,” said the King gravely, “and go on till the end; then stop.”

The White Rabbit read the verses:

“They told me you had been to her,
And mentioned me to him:
She gave me a good character,
But said I could not swim.
He sent them word I had not gone
(We know it to be true):
If she should push the matter on,
What would become of you?
I gave her one, they gave him two,
You gave us three or more;
They all returned from him to you,
Though they were mine before.
If I or she should chance to be
Involved in this affair,
He trusts to you to set them free,
Exactly as we were.
My notion was that you had been
(Before she had this fit)
An obstacle that came between
Him, and ourselves, and it.
Don’t let him know she liked them best,
For this must ever be
A secret, kept from all the rest,
Between yourself and me.”

“That’s the most important evidence yet,” said the King, rubbing his hands.

“If any one can explain it,” said Alice, now grown very large, “I’ll give him sixpence. I don’t believe there’s an atom of meaning in it.”

The jury wrote, “She doesn’t believe there’s an atom of meaning in it,” but none attempted to explain.

“If there’s no meaning,” said the King, “that saves trouble. Yet I seem to see some meaning: ‘—said I could not swim—’ you can’t swim, can you?” he asked the Knave.

The Knave shook his head sadly.

“All right, so far,” said the King. “‘We know it to be true—’ that’s the jury—‘I gave her one, they gave him two—’ why, that must be the tarts!”

“But it goes on ‘they all returned from him to you,’” said Alice.

“Why, there they are!” said the King, pointing triumphantly to the tarts. “Nothing clearer than that. Then again—‘before she had this fit—’ you never had fits, my dear, I think?”

“Never!” said the Queen furiously, throwing an inkstand at the Lizard. Bill hurriedly resumed writing with the trickling ink.

“Then the words don’t fit you,” said the King, smiling.

“It’s a pun!” he added angrily. Everyone laughed.

“Let the jury consider their verdict,” said the King for the twentieth time.

“No, no!” said the Queen. “Sentence first—verdict afterwards.”

“Stuff and nonsense!” said Alice. “The idea of sentence first!”

“Hold your tongue!” said the Queen, purple with rage.
“I won’t!” said Alice.
“Off with her head!” shouted the Queen.

Nobody moved.

“Who cares for you?” said Alice, now full-sized. “You’re nothing but a pack of cards!”

The whole pack rose into the air and came flying at her. She screamed—half from fright, half from anger—and found herself lying on the bank, her head in her sister’s lap. Her sister gently brushed away leaves that had fluttered down.

“Wake up, Alice dear! What a long sleep you’ve had!”

“Oh, I’ve had such a curious dream!” said Alice, recounting all her strange Adventures. Her sister kissed her and said, “It was curious, dear, certainly; but now run to your tea; it’s getting late.”

Alice ran off, thinking how wonderful her dream had been.

Her sister stayed, watching the setting sun, dreaming of little Alice and all her Adventures. She imagined Wonderland coming alive around her: the White Rabbit hurrying by, the Mouse splashing through the pool, the teacups rattling, the Queen shouting, the pig-baby sneezing, the Gryphon shrieking, the Lizard squeaking, and the Mock Turtle sobbing.

She pictured how, in later years, Alice would grow into a woman, keep the simple, loving heart of childhood, gather children around her, share strange tales, and remember her own joyful summer days.

THE END.